---
layout: post
title: "a lazy day"
date: 2017-05-27 11:50:00
categories: writing life
---

what the fuck?
==============

I finally found a way to make the headings work. Still don't know why they aren't working with the hash tags.

My asshole neighbor is having her asshole guests move out. Now all of their stuff is on the sidewalk. Lovely. The asshole neighbor should be fully gone by the end of the month. It can't come too soon.

Today I need to write just for the sake of writing, without pauses, flowing on until I have nothing left to say.

The word count function doesn't seem to be working. Instead, I am seeing something that marks the line I am on and the number of characters per line. I really need the word count feature, and I thought I had sorted it out. I'm not sure how to set the preferences for that package.

Ah, I got it. Problem fixed.

So my goal for each post now should be 300-500 words, which today is feeling like pulling teeth. I'm not teeming with ideas just now.

I went out for a while in the middle of writing this post. I went to the medical marijuana place, but my prescription has expired. Frustrating. I went to Guitar Center and bought a Voodoo Labs Pedal Power ISO 5 for my pedal board. Finally, a decent power supply for my pedals. Every gig or rehearsal I have had to jury rig my pedals and just hope the batteries don't run out - a pain in the ass for the MXR pedal that needs a screwdriver to change batteries. This way I can set up my board and leave it plugged in. I don't switch pedals all that often, but I do like to leave the compressor on all the time.

I need to get back to regular musical practice. The last productive period I had was guitar only, but at this point I haven't played regularly for some months now. I wouldn't mind periods where I don't play guitar if I could substitute some other aspect of musicianship for daily practice. At the very least I need to listen to music every day.

I can feel another guitar playing period coming up. This time around I want to simply practice the chord solos I was working on last time while also doing some transcription. I need to tune up the ear.

Speaking of which, maybe I could include some ear training in this next period. At least some of Bruce Arnold's CDs, though I really should work on my sight singing. If I get one of the jobs at Berklee I can listen to the CDs in the car, and work on the sight singing in my office. Just a dream at this point, but I assume I have as good a shot as any at either one of those jobs. At least I hope so.
