---
layout: post
title: "looping"
date: 2017-05-08 17:03:00
categories: writing
---
I thought I might write a little bit about the concept of looping. In my last post I wrote about the idea of looping from Clouse (2010), freewriting for a time, then freewriting some more based on one idea from the first freewriting session. Repeat this pattern as long as you want.

In fact, what I am doing just now is a form of looping. I wrote for a while last time, and now I am writing about one idea from that first session. This could produce quite a lot of writing given that it is essentially multiple freewriting sessions strung together. One of my goals is to be able to work up to longer freewriting session, building up my stamina, so to speak. Stringing together multiple sessions of 15-20 minutes - or even 10 minutes for that matter - will produce a shitload of writing.

I don't know how long my current writing sessions are, but I will begin to use a timer. Having micro-goals along the way is a very useful strategy for me, especially given my attention deficit issues. Using a timer for studying has long been something I've known would help me, but I have resisted. One of the issues I don't have with my attention deficit is the ability to park my ass at my desk for hours. I can go for hours straight without taking a break. The problem is that often I am unproductive while at my desk, and when I am productive I have a hard time staying on task. I am hoping that the use of a timer for writing sessions will help me with the  lack of productivity and focus.
