---
layout: post
title: "practice practice practice"
date: 2017-11-27 11:24:00
categories: practice
---
While I'm on a roll, let me keep going. Let me now pay specific attention to aspects of my musical practice I wish I kept up with but don't really. It helps to be reflective of them, even if I don't take the time to do it regularly. I know this may be a bit repetitive, covering some areas already covered in previous posts, but I feel the need to drill down on them a bit more. The repetition helps not only with continuing to turn over the dirt, but it also helps to motivate me to move forward.

---

* **Composition**: In the past I have identified myself primarily as a composer; it would be nice to do so again. Really, I need to get back to working my way through Schoenberg's *Theory of Harmony* as a way to refresh my ideas. I could also re-familiarize myself with Wuorinen's *Simple Composition* as a way of adding structure to my compositions. Wuorinen's book, in particular, shows a path toward logical long-form composition, even if the harmony of serial composition still seems foreign to me. I guess that is one of the reasons I like Schoenberg's book - Schoenberg arrived at his theory of serial composition by working his way through the consonant and dissonant complexities of late-Romantic music to the point where nothing seemed all that dissonant to him. This is one of the reasons jazz harmony is so attractive to me - the complexity of harmonies still sounds consonant, even while there is quite a bit of hair on it.
  * One project I could think of would be to work my way through Schoenberg's book in a manner similar to that of the book *Harmonic Experience* (I forget the name of the author). Essentially, the author of that book found a very personal way of experiencing the dissonances of equal-tempered tuning by working his way from consonances to more and more complex dissonances. This is really the progression Schoenberg takes in his book, working his way toward a natural hearing of the serial system. Something to think about, for sure.
  * Try my hand at songwriting. This is closest to jazz composition, albeit with lyrics. I have never been a lyricist, though I have bought a few books on the subject. If my compositional style is most closely related to Afrobeat - my favorite tunes I have written have a distinct Afrobeat feel to them - then it is not much of a stretch to try songwriting as a field of composition. It might help me to get gigs, in the end.
* **Piano**: The piano would be a really useful tool for re-starting my practice as a composer as well as broadening my experience as a musician in general. In many ways, it is a more important instrument for me than the guitar given that it is so freaking logical. There are a few different aspects of playing this instrument I should pay attention to.
  * *Playing from Lead Sheets*: This is where I live as a jazz composer and arranger. I've not gotten the hang of reharmonizing tunes using the guitar, but I have a feeling it is a much more natural thing to do at the piano. Just keep working on Haerle's book of jazz chords and see how that sinks into my playing. I can also work on some of Levine's arrangements from the *Jazz Piano Book*, but I really want to be able to play from a lead sheet.
  * *Playing Music as Written*: Here I am thinking about learning pieces from Bartok's *Mikrokosmos* as well as Bach's *Notebook for Anna Magdalena*. Working on this stuff will help me with score reading, but the Bartok pieces in particular are great little mini-lessons in composition.
  * *Score Reading*: Here I am thinking about reading my way through composition exercises, scores I might study, and scores of my own works. I particularly like reading through scores by Stravinsky and Wagner, though I have a bunch of Mahler scores hanging around as well. I also have a mini-score of some of Webern's work somewhere. I need to get back to reading these scores along with recordings, and writing piano reductions of choice passages. The piano, in this instance, is just a tool.
