---
layout: post
title: "need to work out"
date: 2018-02-08 12:52:00
categories: exercise writing coding
---
I have been trying to get back into the habit of exercising regularly, but my back went out this past week. Finally, today I feel like I can do it. I went to the gym a few days ago, but I couldn't complete even the most basic workout. Today I should do some light weight lifting and then spend a half hour on the treadmill.

I need to start reintroducing my body to weight training. In the past I have done very well with weights, but I need to take it slow at first. I'm 54 years old now, and my body isn't going to respond the way it used to. fAll I need to do is take it easy at first and then work up to a full weight training program. Just be good to myself.

I also need to get back to writing regularly like I was doing for a number of months last year. Writing this blog really did help me with my keyboard fluency, so I need to continue on.

Really, what I need to do is to reorganize my blogs and my portfolio website. [Pulamusic.com](http://pulamusic.com/) should be the portfolio site, with a blog and links to several other blogs - all I need to do is to change the site to a static front page. The pulamusic blog should continue to comment on music, though I need to make it a bit more substantive. The [freewriting blog](https://pulamusic.github.io/jekyll-base/) should continue on as is, while the new [moonBlog](https://pulamusic.github.io/Moon/) should have some sort of plan. Perhaps it should be dedicated to developing ideas generated by the freewriting and music blogs. It's a nice looking blog site, so it really would be best to keep it substantive. Let me think about this one a bit.

Perhaps the moonBlog should continue to be focused on coding, beginning to range into the digital humanities. Let me outline a few points that I could focus on with this blog.

* I am continuing to work on [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/) tutorials, so I can continue to write about what I am learning, and what I hope to learn. Maybe I can find specific coding problems within each tutorial that I can expand upon in moonBlog posts.
* I should leave the Jekyll theme's designer's posts where they are for now because they are full of ideas for writing better markdown. I like the stripped down feel of the freewriting blog, but it would be nice to learn some new markdown tricks. Markdown is fairly limited as compared to html, though it is much easier to write. It's meant to be convenient for writers, for sure, but it would be nice to have a little more creative functionality.
* I need to begin writing about the digital humanities if I hope to become more involved with them. At first I might try commenting on aspects of the digital humanities I find online, kind of like what I currently do with the pulamusic blog and music.

Let me mull over these few things to see if I can find some more clarity with regard to my blogs. Fo now, let me try writing a post for the moonBlog site.
